AsciiDoc User Guide
===================
Stuart Rackham <srackham@gmail.com>
:Author Initials: SJR
:toc:
:icons:
:numbered:
:website: http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/

AsciiDoc is a text document format for writing notes, documentation,
articles, books, ebooks, slideshows, web pages, blogs and UNIX man
pages.  AsciiDoc files can be translated to many formats including
HTML, PDF, EPUB, man page.  AsciiDoc is highly configurable: both the
AsciiDoc source file syntax and the backend output markups (which can
be almost any type of SGML/XML markup) can be customized and extended
by the user.

.This document
**********************************************************************
This is an overly large document, it probably needs to be refactored
into a Tutorial, Quick Reference and Formal Reference.

If you're new to AsciiDoc read this section and the <<X6,Getting
Started>> section and take a look at the example AsciiDoc (`*.txt`)
source files in the distribution `doc` directory.
**********************************************************************


Introduction
------------
AsciiDoc is a plain text human readable/writable document format that
can be translated to DocBook or HTML using the asciidoc(1) command.
You can then either use asciidoc(1) generated HTML directly or run
asciidoc(1) DocBook output through your favorite DocBook toolchain or
use the AsciiDoc a2x(1) toolchain wrapper to produce PDF, EPUB, DVI,
LaTeX, PostScript, man page, HTML and text formats.

The AsciiDoc format is a useful presentation format in its own right:
AsciiDoc markup is simple, intuitive and as such is easily proofed and
edited.

AsciiDoc is light weight: it consists of a single Python script and a
bunch of configuration files. Apart from asciidoc(1) and a Python
interpreter, no other programs are required to convert AsciiDoc text
files to DocBook or HTML. See <<X11,Example AsciiDoc Documents>>
below.

Text markup conventions tend to be a matter of (often strong) personal
preference: if the default syntax is not to your liking you can define
your own by editing the text based asciidoc(1) configuration files.
You can also create configuration files to translate AsciiDoc
documents to almost any SGML/XML markup.

asciidoc(1) comes with a set of configuration files to translate
AsciiDoc articles, books and man pages to HTML or DocBook backend
formats.

.My AsciiDoc Itch
**********************************************************************
DocBook has emerged as the de facto standard Open Source documentation
format. But DocBook is a complex language, the markup is difficult to
read and even more difficult to write directly -- I found I was
spending more time typing markup tags, consulting reference manuals
and fixing syntax errors, than I was writing the documentation.
**********************************************************************
